hey we've got kitchen cabinets the
kitchens looking like a kitchen they say
an eco-friendly house can't be built in
150 days for $150,000 and I say it can
I'm allen Smith join me as I push the
limits with time budget and creativity
with the garden home challenge
exclusively on eHow home
you know there's just something about
the kitchen it's really kind of the
heart of the home and of course an
essential part of the kitchen is the
cabinetry and we've talked a little bit
about the cabinet's that go up here on
the wall and we've got those at the
reuse store for Habitat for Humanity and
I like this shaker they call this shaker
design but it's very simple so in this
case on this cabinet door what you have
is a two and a half inch board that goes
all the way around very very simple and
shaker light so we went to the lumber
surplus place on Saturday and Tony and I
figured out based on the drawings here
what we needed to go along this wall
which is the east wall of the kitchen so
we picked out these cabinets here and
here and then the one that will run
under the sink here and then also if you
look over here on this wall we got the
base of the pantry and we're gonna have
some pantry cabinets that will come up
here now Tony may build those around
here we got all of these cabinets for
about five hundred and thirty bucks and
what he's gonna do is he's gonna come
along then and make the doors and the
cabinet drawers match these shaker doors
that you see here what we're gonna have
to do is we're gonna have to make this
just a little smaller this trim probably
is gonna be about an inch and three
quarters maybe slightly larger closer to
two inches that will go around each one
of these drawers and you'll be able to
reach just behind them like that so
there may be no need for knobs although
I found
a pool that I like that I think we may
end up using now here's a mistake
these were wrapped up notice this is an
external hinge here and that's one way
to hinge cabinet doors but what we
really wanted to go for is one like this
where the hinging is on the inside here
and here and if you look closely you'll
see that matches the cabinet hinges that
we picked up at the BRE store so once we
have the appliances laid out and we knew
how much space we had we could go along
and figure out exactly what size units
that we could bind pre-made cabinets to
keep the costs down for instance this
unit is one foot wide this unit is two
feet wide this unit is well fourteen
inches wide and so you just have to do
the math and fill in all the spaces that
you have and you have to think about how
many drawers you need versus how many
cabinets and so forth like that so hey
if you're enjoying following the
progress of the house and seeing these
updates check in regularly and subscribe
to eHow home
you